How to run the 25-MTB example for GbGDiv

1. Intro
You're starting from a small text file that has 25 loci from the Mycobacterium WGS database at BIGSdb. 


2. What to run on the command line

Starting from the GbGDiv folder:

perl GbGDiv.pl -table Examples/25-MTB/25-MTB-table.txt -transpose YES -dboption 2 -dbname pubmlst_mycobacteria_seqdef

This breaks down into:
"perl GbGDiv.pl" -- use the Perl script
"-table Examples/25-MTB/25-MTB-table.txt" -- use the "25-MTB-table.txt" file as your table input
"-transpose YES" -- since the table has loci as columns and we'd like to read it locus-by-locus through the rows, tranpose it first
"-dboption 2 -dbname pubmlst_mycobacteria_seqdef" -- grab the full FASTA files from BIGSdb (option 2), from the database named "pubmlst_mycobacteria_seqdef"

You'll also be asked what you want to call the results folder (currently it would write something identical to the existing example).
You'll also be asked if you want to change the MAFFT parameters. There's no need for this, so you can leave it blank.


3. What you'll see:

This is what the command line should tell you happens after you tell it to go ahead: 

[start here]
Transposing your table... and done.
Now reading your table in and grabbing the relevant FASTA sequences...

'id' did not exist as a FASTA file. Alleles in table were... 1 10 11 12 13 etc.
'isolate' did not exist as a FASTA file. Alleles in table were... 104 AF2122/97 ATCC 19977 Agy99 CDC1551 etc.
'species' did not exist as a FASTA file. Alleles in table were... Mycobacterium abscessus Mycobacterium avium Mycobacterium bovis Mycobacterium tuberculosis Mycobacterium ulcerans etc.

Table reading complete.


Translated up to...
MYCO000025
Translation complete.

Currently aligning...
MYCO000025.FAS
Alignments complete.


GbGDiv scripts all complete!
[end here]

Don't be worried if it doesn't find 'id', 'isolate' and 'species' as FASTA files; these are not loci so that's expected. 


4. What next?

Pop the "ResultsTable.txt" file into the R Shiny website: https://apps-maidenlab.zoo.ox.ac.uk/GbGDiv/

You could also try changing the FASTA option to 3, which would only grab the seen alleles, not the whole catalog.